I have been privileged to be part of the Andela boot camp, starting from 
the application process, home study, interview and down to boot camp. I 
must confess it wasn’t an easy journey but I learnt a lot in the process 
and got to understand the Andelans better. I have also be privileged to 
be part of the Android Learning community Program ALCwithgoogle 1.0 
Android beginners track and ALCWithgoogle2.0 Intermediate Android 
Development and also part of the ALCWithMicrosoft Front-End web 
Development Track.

You might want to know why I am doing all this programs. And the answer 
is simple, I love to learn and I love to take advantage of opportunities 
that would help me improve on my skills and prepare myself for the 
future ahead…and very importantly ever since I step foot at Andela right 
from the interview to boot camp, I fell in love with Andela, I had never 
thought of working in a tech company, judging from my educational 
background coming from the accounting/financial angle I have always had 
companies like KPMG, PWC, Deloitte, E&Y, those are the big four in the 
financial Accounting sectors, not until I was invited for interview, 
which later saw me through the boot camp, my love for tech increased 
beyond doing it at my leisure but more technically focused.

What you should know before Applying for Andela Fellowship

From the knowledge I gathered in 2016 when I first applied for the 
Andela fellowship program here are some things you should know;

1. You should be passionate about tech

2. You should be technically prepared(very important)

If you notice in the website they said no technical skill required to 
apply. Yes they are right no technical skill required to apply but you 
would need the technical skill to scale through the boot camp 
successfully without much struggle. Else you will struggle throughout 
the boot camp worst case scenario you might be kicked out at the end of 
the first week.

How to stand a chance of been invited for Interview with Andela for the 
fellowship Program

1. Apply early enough as soon as the application opens

2. Be sure to go through the home study thoroughly, finish everything 
and learn beyond the scope of the home study if possible.

3. Take the Saberr test (Psychometric test)

4. Take the online test. When taking the test be sure to be consistent 
while using a particular language for the codebase. Preferably 
JavaScript, even in the Home Study, you will be advice to focus on 
JavaScript, so don’t try to combine both JavaScript and Python together 
when taking the home study, if you are taking the codebase question in 
JavaScript stick to it and also apply ECMAScript2015 where necessary.

5. When given deadlines/ timelines for the online test try to meet the 
deadlines.

What to Expect at the Interview

The interview could be less than an hour, you will be given opportunity 
to select the convenient time and day for your interview. Choose wisely 
and go prepared.

1. You should expect questions like tell us about yourself?

2. What project have you worked on before?

3. Have you worked in a team, what did you guys work on, what was your 
role in the team and what was the challenge you face as a team and how 
did you handle it.

4. You might be ask to show some of your work online

5. And if you say you are passionate about tech, what have you done with 
that passion. LOL.

6. You might be ask to explain what you understand by the EPIC value and 
what each of them mean to you.

7. Then for the technical section, this has to do with code reviews, the 
code you submitted online during the home study test, you will be 
required to explain the code. That means you shouldn’t do copy and paste 
while taking the test you should understand what your code does and how 
it works.

8. You might be required to write some code as well. Mostly algorithms. 
Solve some problem with pen and paper or with a laptop

What to Expect at the Boot camp?

A lot has changed at Andela, they now have more fellows as compared to 
when I last visited at the boot camp in Nov/Dec, 2016. They have moved 
from their office at Yaba and now at the EPIC tower. I was privileged to 
also have visited the EPIC tower, my cohort was the first to launch the 
EPIC tower, throughout the second week of the boot camp we were at the 
EPIC tower, and it’s a nice working environment.

While I was at the boot camp focus was on JavaScript but now in addition 
to JavaScript you should be familiar with react, angular, node.js 
because most projects you will be given are centred on it. Andelas are 
big fans of JavaScript.

How to succeed at the Boot camp

You will be group in team and made to work as an individual, so while at 
the boot camp you should be able to collaborate which is the “C” part of 
the EPIC values.

When given a task, you should be timely enough in your submission, no 
code sharing, your integrity plays here as well and also seek feedback 
where necessary, these things are very important to stand a chance to be 
selected, and you should be able to combine your technical and soft 
skills properly.

Conclusion

Be passionate about what you are doing, and open your mind to learn new 
things at the boot camp, render help and seek help where necessary, be a 
team player and enjoy the process…I wish you the best in your journey to 
becoming world class!

Thanks for reading. You might also want to check out my other post on 
Things I Learnt from the Andelans.

If you find the post informative, don’t forget to like, share and give 
it a clap… Also follow me to get more of this. …
